>> Ben Hong: Before I do the exercise,
I'm gonna give you all a sneak peek into
something that it is
not heavily documented,
this is an intermediate view thing,
so we're gonna talk about it.
And so this leans a little bit more
advanced, but what I wanted to show
you before we moved on to the exercise
is there is something inside of Vue.
There is a new thing.
At least I think it's new for
a lot of people.
It's called Define Expose.
What Define Expose does.
Actually, let me just caution this.
I can't put a warning enough on this.
This is an advanced technique.
You should not be reaching for this.
I wanted to share this because I do
think people will find use for it, but
this should not be your
default thing to use.
I cannot stress that enough.
Okay, disclaimer said define expose.
Everything I said about slots,
where I said, like,
you know, you're exposing it
specifically to the slot.
Define expose kind of like blows that up.
And so it says, in this particular case,
let's say double count, and
then this can just be
a method that then says,
current count value equals
current count value times 2.
Easy enough.
What it does is you give it an object and
you say, hey,
I want my parent to have access
to these properties wherever.
So you're thinking, okay,
how does that work exactly?
Well, the way it works is you need to
first access the child component itself.
And so if you haven't done this before,
this is known as a template ref.
So we can basically say
slotDemoRef = useTemplateRef.
And so what that does is it basically
allows you to assign an ID to your
component that basically allows you to
fetch the DOM element you're actually
picking up.
So in this case,
I'll just call it slot demo.
And then here we go, just like that, okay?
And then once you have that, you can
basically then say if slot demoref exists,
because when the component is initialized,
it does not.
You will notice value.
Everything is exposed or sorry,
everything you define is exposed.
That thing where I mentioned that,
count is only stuck to the slot.
Define Expose says, actually, we're
going to let you expose it up here and
you can play with it.
Okay, so this is clearly kind
of dangerous [LAUGH] because it
blows open the walls, right?
You're like, man, no boundaries.
This is amazing.
With great freedom comes
great responsibility.
I remember when I first learned
about this, my first thought was,
why the heck would I ever use scope slots?
I'm just gonna expose everything, right?
That's dangerous, for obvious reasons.
The reason you Scope things is
because you want it to be used within
a certain context.
That is still the advantage
of a scope slot.
And why I would say you really should
be still using that as your default.
The reason you might expose however,
in particular methods and
I reached out to the community and
talked to a few people.
Some of them had like let's
say a modal dialogue, right?
A modal dialogue that would close itself.
That's really not something you want
to like have to like abstract out.
And especially if you're generating
a different closed modal for
each modal that you're generating, it's
kind of weird to like abstract that out so
that the parent also can get access to it.
And so define expose is actually in
this regard a very elegant way to say,
hey look, you want to close
this child's modal, right?
Right.
So again, again, just for
the sake of documenting, if there was
a function called like close modal and
it would just, you know, set whatever.
So const isOpen = ref(true) and it's like,
isOpen.value = false.
Like we already have this built into here.
Then there's really like especially
because a lot of times we are doing things
programmatically, right?
Like it's nice when you have a button
that you click that closes the modal.
But a lot of times we might be
chaining events together, right?
If we know that the parent is doing
something at the top where then it
eventually needs to close as a child.
Well now you can actually then
call that and just say ref value.
And you always need the optional because
remember that the component is not
necessarily mounted at
the initial part and
then at that point then you
can say close modal and
now you can programmatically
invoke the child's method.
Again, I can't stress this enough.
Everyone I've talked to says I struggle
to find use cases for this, but
it does exist.
There's a reason this API exists.
I want people to know about this because
I think that's part of our role as
developers is to understand these kind of
techniques which at face value if used
incorrectly of course can make a lot of
spaghetti code make our lives miserable.
But we're learning to
use the trade offs and
more importantly when
we don't have a choice.
I think someone else I talked to, they
have third party UI libraries where they
have methods that are built
into those UI libraries.
It's kind of redundant to create
a composable that refers to the components
UI library that then you
kind of like redirect and
so they just expose those methods
directly through define Expose.
And then they're just
leveraging the APIs directly.
And so again, is this an edge case?
Yes, that should first thing
when you see this edge case.
But define expose is a thing.
And so, yeah, now that you know.
Now you know.